Category,Edit Type,Edit Number,Edit Description,User Friendly Language,Affected Data Fields
Transmittal Sheet and LAR,Syntactical,S010,The first record identifier in the file must = 1 (TS). The second and all subsequent record identifiers must = 2 (LAR).,"The first row of your file must begin with a ""1"". Any subsequent rows must all begin with a ""2"". Your file does not follow this format. Please update your file accordingly.",Record Identifier
Transmittal Sheet and LAR,Syntactical,S011,The HMDA file must contain at least one loan/application record (record identifier = 2).,"Your file must contain at least one row that begins with a ""2"". Your file does not follow this format. Please update your file accordingly.",Record Identifier
Transmittal Sheet and LAR,Syntactical,S020,"Agency code must = 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9. The agency that submits the data must be the same as the reported agency code.","Agency code must equal 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, or 9. An invalid agency code was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Agency Code
Transmittal Sheet and LAR,Syntactical,S025,Control number must = a valid respondent identifier/agency code combination for date processed.,The respondent-id and agency code provided in the file does not match our records. Please verify the reported respondent-id and agency code and update your file accordingly.,Respondent-ID; Agency Code
Transmittal Sheet and LAR,Syntactical,S040,Application/loan number must be unique.,There are duplicate application/loan numbers in your file. The application/loan number must not be the same as any other application/loan number in the file. Please update your file accordingly.,Loan/Application Number
Transmittal Sheet,Syntactical,S100,Activity year must = year being processed (= 2017).,The activity year provided in the file is incorrect. Please update your file accordingly.,Activity Year
Transmittal Sheet,Syntactical,S013,Timestamp must be later than timestamp on database.,The timestamp provided in row one of the file is earlier than the timestamp in the database. Please update your file accordingly.,
Transmittal Sheet,Syntactical,S028,Timestamp must be numeric and in yyyymmddhhmm format.,The timestamp provided in row one of the file is missing or in an incorrect format. The format is yyyymmddhhmm. Please update your file accordingly.,Timestamp
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V105,"Respondent name, address, city, state, and zip code must not = blank.","The respondent name, address, city, state, or zip code are missing from row one of your file. Please update your file accordingly.",Respondent Name; Respondent Address; Respondent City; Respondent State; Respondent ZIP Code; 
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V140,"Respondent state code must equal a valid postal code abbreviation (i.e., AL for Alabama).","The respondent state in row one of your file is not a valid postal code abbreviation or is a postal code outside of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico. Please update your file accordingly.",Respondent State
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V145,Respondent zip code format must be NNNNN or NNNNN-NNNN.,The respondent zip code in row one of your file is not in the proper format. Please update your file accordingly.,Respondent ZIP Code
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V155,"A valid e-mail address for the institution must be provided and must be in the format of username@exampledomain.topleveldomain. The e- mail address shall not contain any spaces and must contain only one @ symbol.  The e-mail address shall not contain ""@."", "".@"" and "".."" character strings.",The respondent e-mail address in row one of your file is blank or not in a proper format. Please update your file accordingly.,Contact Person's E-mail Address
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V108,"If parent name is reported, then parent name cannot equal institution name.","The parent name in row one of your file is the same as the institution name. If parent name is reported, it cannot be the same as the institution's name. Please update your file accordingly.",Parent Name; Respondent Name
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V110,"If respondent is a mortgage banking subsidiary (MBS) or a nondepository institution that has an affiliation with a depository institution, then parent name of the MBS or the depository institution that the nondepository institution is affiliated with along with the address, city, state and zip code must not = blank.","If your institution is a mortgage banking subsidiary or a non depository institution that has an affiliation with a depository institution, then the name, address, city, state, and zip code of the parent must be provided in the respective parent fields. Please update your file accordingly.",Parent Name; Parent Address; Parent City; Parent State; Parent ZIP Code
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V111,"If parent state code is reported, then the postal code abbreviation must be valid (i.e., AL for Alabama).","The parent state in row one of your file is not a valid postal code abbreviation or is a postal code outside of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico. Please update your file accordingly.",Parent State
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V112,"If parent zip code is reported, then the format must be NNNNN or NNNNN-NNNN.",The parent zip code in row one of your file is not in the proper format. Please update your file accordingly.,Parent ZIP Code
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V150,Institution Name cannot equal Contact Name.,Your institution's name cannot be the same as the contact person's name. Please update your file accordingly.,Respondent Name; Contact Person's Name
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V115,Name of contact person must not = blank.,The name of a contact person must be provided. Please update your file accordingly.,Contact Person's Name
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V120,Contact person telephone number must be in NNN-NNN-NNNN format and not blank.,The contact person's telephone number provided in the file is blank or in an incorrect format. The format is NNN-NNN-NNNN. Please update your file accordingly.,Contact Person's Phone Number
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V135,Fax Number must be in NNN-NNN-NNNN format and not = blank.,The contact person's fax number provided in the file is blank or in an incorrect format. The format is NNN-NNN-NNNN. Please update your file accordingly.,Contact Person's Facsimile Number
Transmittal Sheet,Validity,V125,Tax ID number must be in NN-NNNNNNN format and not = (99-9999999 or 00-0000000 or blank).,"The tax id number provided in your file cannot be reported as 99-9999999, 00-0000000, or blank. The format is NN-NNNNNNN format. Please update your file accordingly.",Tax ID
LAR,Syntactical,S205,Application/Loan number must not = blank or all zeros.,The application/loan number cannot be blank or all zeros. Please update your file accordingly.,Loan/Application Number
LAR,Validity,V210,"Date application received must be in YYYYMMDD format; month and day must be in the range 01-12 and 01-31, respectively or equal NA. YYYY must be numeric and the first two digits of the number must equal 20.",The date application received should be reported as a valid date or NA. Please update your file accordingly.,Date Application Received
LAR,Validity,V215,"If Action taken type = 6, then date application received must = NA.",The date application received for purchased loans (action taken type = 6) must be NA. Please update your file accordingly.,Date Application Received; Type of Action Taken
LAR,Validity,V220,"Loan type must = 1, 2, 3, or 4.","Loan type must equal 1, 2, 3, or 4. An invalid loan type code was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Loan Type
LAR,Validity,V400,"Property type must = 1, 2, or 3.","Property type must equal 1, 2, or 3. Please update your file accordingly.",Property Type
LAR,Validity,V225,"Loan purpose must = 1, 2, or 3.","Loan purpose must equal 1, 2, or 3. An invalid loan purpose code was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Loan Purpose
LAR,Validity,V410,"If lien status = 3, then loan purpose must = 2.","If a reported loan is not secured by a lien (lien status = 3), then it has to be a home improvement loan (loan purpose = 2). Please update your file accordingly.",Loan Purpose; Lien Status
LAR,Validity,V230,"Occupancy must = 1, 2, or 3.","Owner occupancy must equal 1, 2, or 3. An invalid owner occupancy code was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Owner Occupancy
LAR,Validity,V250,Loan amount must be numeric and > zero.,The loan amount must be provided as a number greater than zero. Please update your file accordingly.,Loan Amount
LAR,Validity,V415,"Preapproval must = 1, 2, or 3.","Preapproval must equal 1, 2, or 3. An invalid preapproval code was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Preapprovals
LAR,Validity,V425,"If loan purpose = 1 and action taken type = 6, then preapproval must = 3.","Not applicable must be reported in the preapproval data field (preapproval = 3) for home purchase loans that are purchased by your institution (loan purpose = 1, action taken type = 6). Please update your file accordingly. ",Loan Purpose; Preapprovals; Type of Action Taken
LAR,Validity,V430,"If loan purpose = 2 or 3, then preapproval must = 3.",Not applicable must be reported in the preapproval data field (preapproval = 3) for home improvement or refinancing loans (loan purpose = 2 or 3). Please update your file accordingly.,Loan Purpose; Preapprovals
LAR,Validity,V435,"If action taken type = 7 or 8, then preapproval must = 1","Preapproval was requested must be reported in the preapproval data field (preapproval = 1) if the preapproval request was denied by your financial institution or if the preapproval request was approved by your institution, but not accepted (action taken type = 7 or 8). Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Action Taken; Preapprovals
LAR,Validity,V255,"Action taken type must = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8.","Action taken type must equal 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8. An invalid action taken type code was reported.  Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Action Taken
LAR,Validity,V260,"If reasons for denial are in the range 1-9, then action taken type must = 3 or 7.","Application denied by financial institution or Preapproval request denied by financial institution (action taken type = 3 or 7) must be reported in the action taken type data field if a denial reason is reported (denial reason = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9). Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Action Taken; Denial Reason: 1; Denial Reason: 2; Denial Reason: 3
LAR,Validity,V262,"If date application received = NA, then action taken type must = 6.",Loan purchased by your institution must be reported in the action taken type data field (action taken type = 6) if the date application received is reported as NA. Please update your file accordingly.,Type of Action Taken; Date Application Received
LAR,Validity,V440,"If preapproval = 1, then action taken type must = 1-5, 7 or 8.","If a preapproval was requested (preapproval = 1), then the action taken type cannot be loan purchased by your institution (action taken type = 6). Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Action Taken; Preapprovals
LAR,Validity,V445,"If preapproval = 2, then action taken type must = 1-5.","If a preapproval was not requested (preapproval = 2), the action taken type must equal 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Action Taken; Preapprovals
LAR,Validity,V447,"If preapproval = 3, then action taken type must = 1-6.","If Not applicable was indicated for preapprovals (preapproval = 3), the action taken type must equal 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Action Taken; Preapprovals
LAR,Validity,V265,"Action taken date must be in YYYYMMDD format; month and day must be in the range 01-12 and 01-31, respectively. YYYY must be numeric.",Action taken date must be reported as a valid date and in the proper format YYYYMMDD. Please update your file accordingly.,Date of Action
LAR,Syntactical,S270,Year (YYYY) of action taken date must = activity year (YYYY) for period being processed.”,The year of action take date (YYYY) must equal the activity year that is being processed. Please update your file accordingly.,Date of Action; Activity Year
LAR,Validity,V275,"If date application received does not = NA, then action taken date must be ≥ date application received.","Date application received must be reported as earlier than the action taken date or as ""NA"". Please update your file accordingly.",Date Application Received; Date of Action
LAR,Validity,V280,MSA/MD must = a valid Metropolitan Statistical Area or Metropolitan Division (if appropriate) code for period being processed or NA.,"The reported MSA/MD must be a valid Metropolitan Statistical Area or Metropolitan Division as defined by the Census Bureau and OMB or be populated with ""NA"". Please update your file accordingly.",Metropolitan Statistical Area / Metropolitan Division
LAR,Validity,V285,State must = a valid FIPS code or (NA where MSA/MD = NA).,"There are two scenarios that trigger this edit: 1) The reported state code is not a valid FIPS code, or 2) The state code is reported as NA, and not as a FIPS code, but the MSA/MD was not reported as NA. Please update your file accordingly.",State Code; Metropolitan Statistical Area / Metropolitan Division
LAR,Validity,V290,"If MSA/MD does not = NA, then MSA/MD, state, and county codes must = a valid combination.","When the reported MSA/MD does not equal NA, then state, county and MSA/MD data fields must be reported with a valid combination of state, county and MSA/MD codes. Please update your file accordingly.",Metropolitan Statistical Area / Metropolitan Division; State Code; County Code
LAR,Validity,V295,State and county must = a valid combination or (county = NA where MSA/MD = NA).,"There are two scenarios that trigger this edit: 1) MSA/MD is reported with a code, but the codes reported for state and county are not a valid combination, or 2) County is reported as NA, but MSA/MD was not reported as NA. Please update your file accordingly.",Metropolitan Statistical Area / Metropolitan Division; State Code; County Code
LAR,Validity,V300,"Census tract must = a valid census tract number for the MSA/MD, state, county combination or (NA if county is classified as small) or (where MSA/MD = NA the census tract must = a valid census tract for the state/county combination or NA). Valid census tract format must be NNNN.NN or NA.","There are four scenarios that trigger this edit: 1) The census tract number is not valid based on the reported state, county, and MSA/MD combination, or 2) MSA/MD is reported as NA, and the reported census tract is either not reported as NA, or is not valid based on the reported state and county combination, or 3) The format for the reported census tract is not NNNN.NN or reported as NA, or 4) census tract is reported as NA but the reported county is not classified as small. Please update your file accordingly.",Metropolitan Statistical Area / Metropolitan Division; State Code; County Code; Census Tract
LAR,Validity,V450,"Applicant ethnicity must = 1, 2, 3, or 4.","Applicant Ethnicity must equal 1, 2, 3, or 4. An invalid applicant ethnicity was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Applicant Ethnicity
LAR,Validity,V460,"Co-Applicant ethnicity must = 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.","Co-applicant Ethnicity must equal 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5. An invalid co-applicant ethnicity was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Co-applicant Ethnicity
LAR,Validity,V463,"Co-Applicant ethnicity does not = 5; however, co-applicant race field 1 = 8 and/or co-applicant sex = 5.","The reported co-applicant ethnicity data field indicates that there is a co-applicant (co-applicant ethnicity does not equal 5). However, the reported co-applicant race and/or co-applicant sex data fields indicate that there is no co-applicant (co-applicant race = 8; co-applicant sex = 5). Please update your file accordingly.",Co-applicant Ethnicity; Co-applicant Race: 1; Co-applicant Sex
LAR,Validity,V455,"If applicant ethnicity = 1, 2 or 3 then the first applicant race field must not = 7.","The reported applicant ethnicity data field indicates that there is an applicant (applicant ethnicity equals 1, 2, or 3). However, the applicant race: 1 data field indicates that there is no applicant (applicant race: 1 = 7). Please update your file accordingly.",Applicant Ethnicity; Applicant Race: 1
LAR,Validity,V465,"If co-applicant ethnicity = 1, 2 or 3 then the first co-applicant race field must not = 7 or 8.","The reported co-applicant ethnicity data field indicates that there is a co-applicant (co-applicant ethnicity equals 1, 2, or 3). However, the reported co-applicant race: 1 data field indicates that there is no co-applicant (co-applicant race: 1 = 7 or 8). Please update your file accordingly.",Co-applicant Ethnicity; Co-applicant Race: 1
LAR,Validity,V310,"Applicant race field 1 must = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7.","Applicant Race: 1 must equal 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7. An invalid applicant race code was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Applicant Race: 1
LAR,Validity,V470,"If applicant race = 1-5 in applicant race field 1, then all other applicant race fields must = blank or 1-5.","The reported applicant race data field indicates that the applicant provided race information (applicant race: 1 = 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5).  Then applicant race data fields 2 - 5 must be blank or equal 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. Please update your file accordingly.",Applicant Race: 1; Applicant Race: 2; Applicant Race: 3; Applicant Race: 4; Applicant Race: 5
LAR,Validity,V475,"If applicant race = 6 or 7 in applicant race field 1, then all other applicant race fields must = blank.",The reported applicant race data field indicates that the applicant did not provide race information (applicant race: 1 = 6 or 7). Then applicant race data fields 2 - 5 must be blank. Please update your file accordingly.,Applicant Race: 1; Applicant Race: 2; Applicant Race: 3; Applicant Race: 4; Applicant Race: 5
LAR,Validity,V480,"Applicant race must not be the same (i.e. 1,1; 1,1,2; 1,2,3,4,1), when more than one applicant race is designated.",Race codes may not be duplicated in the applicant race data fields. Each race code can only be reported once. Please update your file accordingly.,Applicant Race: 1; Applicant Race: 2; Applicant Race: 3; Applicant Race: 4; Applicant Race: 5
LAR,Validity,V315,"Co-Applicant race field 1 must = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8.","Co-applicant race: 1 must equal 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8. An invalid co-applicant race code was provided. Please update your file accordingly.",Co-applicant Race: 1
LAR,Validity,V317,"Co-Applicant race field 1 does not = 8; however, co-applicant ethnicity and/or co-applicant sex = 5.","The reported co-applicant race: 1 data field indicates that there is a co-applicant (co-applicant race: 1 does not equal 8). However, the reported co-applicant ethnicity and/or co-applicant sex data fields indicate that there is no co-applicant (co-applicant race = 5; co-applicant sex = 5). Please update your file accordingly.",Co-applicant Ethnicity; Co-applicant Race: 1; Co-applicant Sex
LAR,Validity,V485,"If co-applicant race = 1-5 in co-applicant race field 1, then all other co-applicant race fields must = blank or 1-5.","The reported co-applicant race data field indicates that the co-applicant provided race information (co-applicant race: 1 = 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5).  Then co-applicant race data fields 2 - 5 must be blank or equal 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. Please update your file accordingly.",Co-applicant Race: 1; Co-applicant Race: 2; Co-applicant Race: 3; Co-applicant Race: 4; Co-applicant Race: 5
LAR,Validity,V490,"If co-applicant race = 6, 7, or 8 in co-applicant race field 1, then all other co-applicant race fields must = blank.","The reported co-applicant race data field indicates that the co-applicant did not provide race information (co-applicant race :1 = 6, 7 or 8). Then co-applicant race data fields 2 - 5 must be blank. Please update your file accordingly.",Co-applicant Race: 1; Co-applicant Race: 2; Co-applicant Race: 3; Co-applicant Race: 4; Co-applicant Race: 5
LAR,Validity,V495,"Co-Applicant race must not be the same (i.e. 1,1; 1,1,2; 1,2,3,4,1), when more than one co-applicant race is designated.",Race codes may not be duplicated in the co-applicant race data fields. Each race code can only be reported once. Please update your file accordingly.,Co-applicant Race: 1; Co-applicant Race: 2; Co-applicant Race: 3; Co-applicant Race: 4; Co-applicant Race: 5
LAR,Validity,V320,"Applicant sex must = 1, 2, 3, or 4.","Applicant sex must equal 1, 2, 3, or 4. An invalid applicant sex code was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Applicant Sex
LAR,Validity,V325,"Co-Applicant sex must = 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.","Co-applicant sex must equal 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. An invalid co-applicant sex code was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Co-applicant Sex
LAR,Validity,V326,"Co-Applicant sex does not = 5; however, co-applicant ethnicity = 5 and/or co-applicant race field 1 = 8.","The reported co-applicant sex data field indicates that there is a co-applicant (co-applicant sex = 1, 2, 3, or 4). However, the co-applicant ethnicity and/or co-applicant race: 1 data fields indicate that there is no co-applicant (co-applicant ethnicity = 5 and/or co-applicant race: 1 = 8). Please update your file accordingly.",Co-applicant Ethnicity; Co-applicant Race: 1; Co-applicant Sex
LAR,Validity,V330,"Income must be numeric and > 0, or equal NA.","The income data field must be reported as a number greater than zero, or reported as ""NA"". Please update your file accordingly.",Applicant Income
LAR,Validity,V335,"If property type = 3, then income must = NA.","If the property type is reported as multifamily (property type = 3), then income must be reported as ""NA"". Please update your file accordingly.",Property Type; Applicant income
LAR,Validity,V338,"If applicant ethnicity, race, and sex = 4, 7, and 4, respectively, and co- applicant ethnicity, race, and sex = 5, 8, and 5, respectively, and action taken = 1-5 or 7-8, then applicant income must = NA.","Applicant income must be reported as ""NA"" if the following three criteria are met: 1) Applicant ethnicity, race, and sex indicate that the applicant is a non natural person (applicant ethnicity = 4, applicant race = 7, and applicant sex = 4) 2) Co-applicant ethnicity, race, and sex indicate that there is no co-applicant (co-applicant ethnicity = 5, co-applicant race = 8, co-applicant sex = 5) 3) The loan was not purchased by your institution (action take = 1-5 or 7-8). You have reported a loan that meets these three criteria, but income was not reported as ""NA"". Please update your file accordingly.",Applicant Race: 1; Applicant Ethnicity; Applicant Sex; Co-applicant Ethnicity; Co-applicant Race: 1; Co-applicant Sex; Type of Action Taken; Applicant Income
LAR,Validity,V340,"Type of purchaser must = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.","Type of purchaser must equal 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9. An invalid type of purchaser code was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Purchaser
LAR,Validity,V347,"If type of purchaser = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9, then action taken type must be 1 or 6.","If the reported loan was sold in the calendar year (type of purchaser does not equal 0), then the action taken type must be reported as loan originated or loan purchased by your institution (action taken type = 1 or 6). Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Action Taken; Type of Purchaser
LAR,Validity,V375,"If type of purchaser = 2, then loan type must = 2, 3, or 4.","If the loan was sold to Ginnie Mae (type of purchaser = 2), then the loan type cannot be classified as a conventional loan (loan type = 2, 3, or 4). Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Purchaser; Loan Type
LAR,Validity,V355,"If (agency code = 2, 3, 5, 7, or 9) or (agency code = 1 and action taken not = 3 or 7), then reasons for denial must = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or blank.","There are two scenarios that trigger this edit: 1) if your institution is regulated by the Office of Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) (agency code = 1), and your institution did not deny the application or preapproval request (action taken type does not equal 3 or 7), then the reasons for denial must be reported (reasons for denial must equal 1-9) or blank or 2) if your institution is not regulated by the OCC (agency code = 2, 3, 5, 7,  or 9), then the reasons for denial can either be reported (reasons for denial must equal 1-9) or left blank. Please update your file accordingly.",Agency Code; Type of Action Taken; Denial Reason: 1; Denial Reason: 2; Denial Reason: 3
LAR,Validity,V360,"Responses for reasons for denial must not be the same (i.e. 1,1; 1,1,2; 1,2,2;...........).",Reason for denial codes may not be duplicated in the reasons for denial data fields. Each denial code may only be reported once. Please update your file accordingly.,Denial Reason: 1; Denial Reason: 2; Denial Reason: 3
LAR,Validity,V385,"If agency code = 1 and action taken = 3 or 7, then at least one reason for denial must be provided and must = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9. Other reasons for denial must = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or blank.","If your institution is regulated by the OCC (agency code = 1) and your institution denied an application or preapproval (action taken = 3 or 7), then at least one reason for denial must be provided (denial reason: 1 = 1-9, and denial reason: 2 = 1-9 or blank, and denial reason: 3 = 1-9 or blank). Please update your file accordingly.",Agency Code; Type of Action Taken; Denial Reason: 1; Denial Reason: 2; Denial Reason: 3
LAR,Validity,V500,"Rate spread must be in the NN.NN format, or NA, must not = blank.","Rate spread must be reported in the NN.NN format or reported as ""NA"". Please update your file accordingly.",Rate Spread
LAR,Validity,V505,"If action taken type = 2-8, then rate spread must = NA.","If the reported loan was not originated (action taken type = 2-8), then rate spread must be reported as ""NA"". Please update your file accordingly.",Rate Spread; Type of Action Taken
LAR,Validity,V570,"If lien status = 1, then rate spread must be > 1.5% and ≤ 99.99% or NA.","If the loan is secured by a first lien (lien status = 1), then the reported value of the rate spread must either be greater than or equal to 1.5% and less than or equal to 99.99%; or reported as ""NA"". Please update your file accordingly.",Rate Spread; Lien Status
LAR,Validity,V575,"If lien status = 2, then rate spread must be ≥ 3.5% and ≤ 99.99% or NA.","If the loan is secured by a subordinate lien (lien status = 2), then the reported value of the rate spread must either be greater than or equal to 3.5% and less than or equal to 99.99%; or reported as ""NA"". Please update your file accordingly.",Rate Spread; Lien Status
LAR,Validity,V520,"If lien status = 3, then rate spread must = NA.","If the loan is not secured by a lien (lien status = 3), then rate spread must be reported as ""NA"". Please update your file accordingly.",Rate Spread; Lien Status
LAR,Validity,V540,"If action taken type = 2-5, 7, or 8, then HOEPA status must = 2.","The loan is not a HOEPA loan (HOEPA Status = 2) if the loan is not originated or purchased (action taken type = 2-5, 7, or 8). Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Action Taken; HOEPA Status
LAR,Validity,V525,HOEPA status must = 1 or 2.,HOEPA Status must equal 1 or 2. An invalid HOEPA Status code was reported. Please update your file accordingly.,HOEPA Status
LAR,Validity,V535,"If applicant ethnicity, race and sex = 4, 7, and 4, respectively, and action taken does not = 6, then HOEPA status must not = 1.","The loan is not a HOEPA loan (HOEPA Status =2) if the reported applicant is a non natural person and the loan was not purchased by your institution (applicant ethnicity = 4, applicant race = 7, applicant sex = 4, and action taken does not equal 6). Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Action Taken; Applicant Ethnicity; Applicant Race: 1; Applicant Sex; HOEPA Status
LAR,Validity,V545,"If lien status = 3, then HOEPA status must = 2.","If the loan is not secured by a lien (lien status = 3), then the loan is not a HOEPA loan (HOEPA Status = 2). Please update your file accordingly.",Lien Status; HOEPA Status
LAR,Validity,V550,"Lien status must = 1, 2, 3, or 4.","Lien status must equal 1, 2, 3, or 4. An invalid lien status code was reported. Please update your file accordingly.",Lien Status
LAR,Validity,V555,"If loan purpose = 1 or 3, then lien status must = 1, 2, or 4.","If the purpose of the loan is for home purchase or refinancing (loan purpose = 1 or 3), then the reported lien status must be secured by a first or secondary lien or not applicable (lien status = 1, 2,  or 4). Please update your file accordingly.",Loan Purpose; Lien Status
LAR,Validity,V560,"If action taken type = 1-5, 7 or 8, then lien status must = 1, 2, or 3.","If the reported loan is not purchased by your institution (action taken type = 1-5, 7, or 8), then the lien status must not be NA (lien status = 1, 2, or 3). Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Action Taken; Lien Status
LAR,Validity,V565,"If action taken type = 6, then lien status must = 4.","If the loan is purchased by your institution (action taken type = 6), then the reported lien status must be NA (lien status = 4). Please update your file accordingly.",Type of Action Taken; Lien Status
Transmittal Sheet,Quality,Q033,"If respondent is a bank, savings association, or independent mortgage company, and if any parent company exists, then parent name, address, city, state and zip code should not = blank.","If your institution is a bank, savings association, or independent mortgage company, then the name, address, city, state, and zip code of the parent should be provided in the respective parent fields. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Parent Name; Parent Address; Parent City; Parent State; Parent ZIP Code
Transmittal Sheet,Quality,Q020,Institution address should not = parent address.,The reported institution address should not equal the reported parent address. Please verify and update your file if needed.,Parent Address; Parent City; Parent State; Parent ZIP Code; Respondent Address; Respondent City; Respondent State; Respondent ZIP Code; 
Transmittal Sheet,Quality,Q012,The reported Tax ID number on the transmittal sheet of your HMDA data file does not match the Tax ID number reported in the previous calendar year submission.,The reported Tax ID number should match the Tax ID number reported in the previous calendar year's submission. Please verify and update your file if needed.,Tax ID
Transmittal Sheet,Quality,Q130,The number of loan/application records received in this transmission file per respondent does not = the total number of loan/application records reported in this respondent’s transmission or the total number of loan/application records in this submission is missing from the transmittal sheet.,"There are two scenarios that trigger this edit: 1) The reported Total Line Entries on the Transmittal Sheet does not match the number of loan/application records reported in the file, or 2) The reported Total Line Entries on the Transmittal Sheet is blank. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Total Line Entries
LAR,Quality,Q022,Date application received should = activity year or (activity year minus 1 or activity year minus 2).,"The reported date application received for the loan should be a date that occurs during the reported activity year or within the two years prior. For example, for data collected in 2017, the date application received should be within the range of 01/01/2015 - 12/31/2017. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Date Application Received
LAR,Quality,Q035,"If purchaser type = 1 or 3, then loan type should = 1.","If the reported purchaser type is Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac (purchaser type = 1 or 3), then the loan type should be reported as Conventional (loan type = 1). Please verify and update your file if needed.",Loan Type; Type of Purchaser
LAR,Quality,Q001,"If loan amount and income are numeric and > 0 and the loan amount is ≥ $1,000 ($1 million), then loan amount should be < 5 times the income.","If the reported loan amount is greater than or equal to $1 million, then the reported loan amount should be less than 5 times of the reported income. Please verify and and update your file if needed.",Applicant Income; Loan Amount
LAR,Quality,Q002,"If property type =1 and income is numeric and ≤ $200 thousand, then loan amount should be < $2 million.","If the property type is reported as a one to four-family (property type = 1), and the reported income is less than or equal to $200 thousand, then reported loan amount should be less than $2 million. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Applicant Income; Loan Amount; Property Type
LAR,Quality,Q003,"If loan type = 2 and property type = 1 or 2, then loan amount should be ≤ $626 ($626 thousand).","If the loan is FHA-insured (loan type = 2), and the property is classified as one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), then the loan amount should be less than or equal to $626 thousand. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Loan Type; Property Type; Loan Amount
LAR,Quality,Q004,"If loan type = 3 and property type = 1 or 2, then loan amount should be ≤ $1,050 ($1,050 thousands).","If the loan is VA-guaranteed (loan type = 3), and the property is classified as one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2),  then the loan amount should be less than or equal to $1.05 million. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Loan Type; Property Type; Loan Amount
LAR,Quality,Q005,"If type of purchaser = 1-4, and property type = 1 or 2, then loan amount should be ≤ $1,203 ($1,203 thousand).","If the loan was sold to Fannie Mae, Ginnie Mae, Freddie Mac, or Farmer Mac (type of purchase = 1-4), and the property is classified as one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), then the loan amount should be less than or equal to $1.203 million. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Type of Purchaser; Property Type; Loan Amount
LAR,Quality,Q013,"If property type = 3, then loan amount should be in the range of $100 thousand and $10 million.","If the property is classified as multifamily (property type = 3), then the reported loan amount should be between $100 thousand and $10 million. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Property Type; Loan Amount
LAR,Quality,Q036,"If property type = 2, then loan amount should be ≤ $150 ($150 thousand).",The loan amount for manufactured housing (property type = 2) should be less than or equal to $150 thousand. Please verify and update your file if needed.,Property Type; Loan Amount
LAR,Quality,Q037,"If lien status = 2, then loan amount should be ≤ $250 ($250 thousand).","If the loan is secured by a subordinate lien (lien status = 2), then the reported loan amount should be less than or equal to $250 thousand. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Lien Status; Loan Amount
LAR,Quality,Q038,"If lien status = 3, then loan amount should be ≤ $100 ($100 thousand).","If the loan is not secured by a lien (lien status = 3), then the reported loan amount should be less than or equal to $100 thousand. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Lien Status; Loan Amount
LAR,Quality,Q025,"If loan purpose = 1 and property type = 1, then loan amount should be > $10 thousand.","If the loan is reported as a home purchase (loan purpose = 1), one to four-family (property type =1), then the reported loan amount should be greater than $10 thousand. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Loan Amount; Loan Purpose; Property Type
LAR,Quality,Q032,"If action taken type = 1, then action taken date should not equal the date application received.","If the loan was originated (action taken type = 1), then the reported action taken date should not equal the reported date application was received. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Type of Action Taken; Date of Action; Date Application Received
LAR,Quality,Q068,"If action taken type = 1-5, 7 or 8, and applicant ethnicity, race and sex = 4,7,4 respectively, and co-applicant ethnicity, race and sex = 4,7,4, respectively, and there is no co-applicant, then co-applicant ethnicity, race, and sex should = 5,8,5, respectively.","The loan is reported as not purchased by your institution (action taken type = 1-5, 7 or 8), with no applicant (applicant ethnicity = 4, applicant race = 7, applicant sex = 4), and co-applicant as not applicable (co-applicant ethnicity = 4, co-applicant race = 7, co-applicant sex = 4). If there is no co-applicant on the loan, the co-applicant data fields should instead indicate that there is no co-applicant (co-applicant ethnicity = 5, co-applicant race = 8, co-applicant sex = 5). Please verify and update your file if needed. ",Type of Action Taken; Applicant Ethnicity; Applicant Race: 1; Applicant Sex; Co-applicant Ethnicity; Co-applicant Race: 1; Co-applicant Sex 
LAR,Quality,Q014,"If income is numeric, then income should be < $3 million.","If income is reported with a number, the amount should be less than $3 million. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Applicant Income
LAR,Quality,Q024,"If action taken type = 1, and income and loan amount are numeric, and loan amount is > 5 times income, then income should be > $ 9 thousand.","If the loan is originated (action taken type = 1) and the reported loan amount is greater than or equal to 5 times the reported income, then income should be greater than $9 thousand. Please verify and update the file if needed.",Type of Action Taken; Applicant Income; Loan Amount
LAR,Quality,Q027,"If action taken type = 1-5, 7 or 8, and property type = 1 or 2, then applicant income should not = NA.","If the loan is not purchased by your institution (action taken type = 1-5, 7, or 8) and the property is classified as one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), then income should not be reported as ""NA"". Please verify and update the file if needed.",Type of Action Taken; Property Type; Applicant Income
LAR,Quality,Q067,"If action taken type = 1-5, 7 or 8, and applicant ethnicity, race and sex = 4, 7, and 4, respectively, and co-applicant ethnicity, race and sex = 4, 7, and 4, respectively, then applicant income should = NA.","If the loan is not purchased by your institution (action taken type = 1-5, 7, or 8) and the applicant ethnicity, race, and sex are reported as NA (applicant ethnicity = 4, applicant race = 7, applicant sex = 7) and the co-applicant ethnicity, race, and sex are reported as NA (co-applicant ethnicity = 4, co-applicant race =7, co-applicant sex = 4), then the income should be reported as ""NA"". Please verify and update the file if needed.",Type of Action Taken; Applicant Ethnicity; Applicant Race: 1; Applicant Sex; Co-applicant Ethnicity; Co-applicant Race: 1; Co-applicant Sex; Applicant Income
LAR,Quality,Q039,"If HOEPA status = 1 and action taken type = 1, then rate spread should not = NA.","If the loan was originated (action taken type = 1) and classified as a HOEPA loan (HOEPA status = 1), then the reported rate spread should not be reported as ""NA"". Please verify and update the file if needed.",HOEPA Status; Type of Action Taken; Rate Spread
LAR,Quality,Q040,"If purchaser type = 1-4 and lien status = 1 or 2, then rate spread should be ≤ 10% or NA.","If a loan was purchased by Fannie Mae, Ginnie Mae, Freddie Mac, or Farmer Mac (purchase type = 1-4) and is secured by a first or subordinate lien (lien status = 1 or 2), then rate spread should be less than or equal to 10% or reported as ""NA"". Please verify and update the file if needed.",Type of Purchaser; Lien Status; Rate Spread
LAR,Quality,Q066,"If rate spread does not = NA, then rate spread should be < 13%.",The reported rate spread should be less than 13%. Please verify and update the file if needed.,Rate Spread
LAR,Quality,Q044,"If action taken type = 1, lien status = 1, and rate spread > 6.5%, then HOEPA status should = 1.","If the loan is originated (action taken type = 1), secured by a first lien (lien status = 1), and the reported rate spread is greater than 6.5%, then the loan should be reported as a HOEPA loan (HOEPA status = 1). Please verify and update the file if needed.",Type of Action Taken; Lien Status; Rate Spread; HOEPA Status
LAR,Quality,Q045,"If action taken type = 1, lien status = 2, and rate spread > 8.5%, then HOEPA status should = 1.","If the loan is originated (action taken type = 1), secured by a subordinate lien (lien status = 2), and the reported rate spread is greater than 8.5%, then the loan should be reported as a HOEPA loan (HOEPA status = 1). Please verify and update the file if needed.",Type of Action Taken; Lien Status; Rate Spread; HOEPA Status
LAR,Quality,Q046,"If loan purpose = 1, HOEPA Status should not = 1",A home purchase loan (loan purpose = 1) should not be classified as a HOEPA loan (HOEPA status should =2). Please verify and update the file if needed.,Loan Purpose; HOEPA Status
LAR,Quality,Q051,"If applicant ethnicity, race and sex = 4, 7, and 4, respectively, and action taken type = 6; HOEPA status should not = 1.","If the reported loan is purchased by your institution (applicant ethnicity = 4,  applicant race = 7, applicant sex = 4, action taken type = 6), then the loan should not be a HOEPA loan (HOEPA should =2). Please verify and update the file if needed.",Type of Action Taken; Applicant Ethnicity; Applicant Race: 1; Applicant Sex; Type of Action Taken; HOEPA Status
LAR,Quality,Q052,"If property type = 3, HOEPA status should not = 1.","If the property is classified as multifamily (property type = 3), then the loan should not be a HOEPA loan (HOEPA status should = 2). Please verify and update your file if needed.",Property Type; HOEPA Status
LAR,Quality,Q064,"If purchaser type = 1 or 3, HOEPA status should not = 1.","If the loan was purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac (purchaser type = 1 or 3), then the loan should not be a HOEPA loan (HOEPA status should = 2). Please verify and update your file if needed.",Type of Purchaser; HOEPA Status
LAR,Quality,Q059,"If loan type = 2, 3, or 4, then property type should not = 3.","If the loan is FHA-insured, VA-guaranteed, or FSA/RHS-guaranteed (loan type = 2, 3, or 4), then the property should not be classified as multifamily (property type should not = 3). Please verify and update your file if needed.",Loan Type; Property Type
LAR,Quality,Q029,"If the reported state/county combination (when county is small and reported tract equals NA), or state/county/census tract combination is valid then the MSA/MD should not = NA.","There are two scenarios that trigger this edit: 1) The property is located in a county with a population of 30,000 or less. Therefore county and census tract are reported as ""NA"". However, based on the reported state and county combination, MSA/MD should not be reported as ""NA"". 2) The property is located in a county with a population greater than 30,000, and based on the reported state, county, and census tract, MSA/MD should not be reported as ""NA"". Please verify and update your file if needed.",Metropolitan Statistical Area / Metropolitan Division; State Code; County Code; Census Tract
LAR,Quality,Q049,"If action taken type = 7 or 8, then MSA/MD, state, county, census tract should equal NA.","If the reported loan is a preapproval request that was denied by your institution or a preapproval request that was approved but not accepted (action taken = 7 or 8), then the MSA/MD, state, county, census tract data fields should be reported as ""NA"". Please verify and update your file if needed. ",Metropolitan Statistical Area / Metropolitan Division; State Code; County Code; Census Tract; Type of Action Taken
LAR,Quality,Q595,"If action taken type = 1-5, 7, or 8, then MSA/MD must = a corresponding respondent, MSA/MD combination on respondent panel, or NA.","According to our records, these loans are located in an MSA/MD where your institution does not have a branch. Please update this information with the appropriate sources.",Metropolitan Statistical Area / Metropolitan Division; Type of Action Taken
LAR,Quality,Q030,"If action taken type = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6; and if the HMDA respondent is required to report MSA/MD, state, county, census tract, then MSA/MD, state, county, census tract should equal a valid combination and not NA.","If the reported loan is not a preapproval request denied by your institution or not a preapproval request that was approved but not accepted (action taken type = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6), and you are required to report MSA/MD, state, county, and census tract for this loan, then 1) MSA/MD, state, county, and census tract cannot be ""NA"", and 2) MSA/MD, state, county, and census tract must be a valid combination of information. Please verify and update your file if needed.",Metropolitan Statistical Area / Metropolitan Division; State Code; County Code; Census Tract; Type of Action Taken
Macro,Macro,Q015,"If property type = 3, then the total number of these loan applications should be < 10% of all loan applications or < 10% of the total dollar amount of all loan applications reported.","There are two scenarios that trigger this edit: 1) The total number of reported multifamily properties (property type = 3) is greater than 10% of the total number of reported lars, or 2) The total dollar amount of the reported multifamily properties is greater than 10% of the total dollar amount of all reported lars. Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.","Property Type; Total Line Entries; Total Dollar Amount (total dollar amount is calculated, and not a data field)"
Macro,Macro,Q031,"If property type = 3, and total number of all loan applications < 2,000, then the total number of multifamily applications should be < 200.","If your institution reported fewer than 2,000 lars in total during this reporting period, then total number of reported loans with property classified as multifamily (property type = 3) should be fewer than 200. Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Property Type; Total Line Entries
Macro,Macro,Q006,"If the total number of loan applications with loan purpose = 1 and action taken type = 1 is > 25, then the total number of these loan applications should be ≤ 95% of the total number of home purchase loan applications.","If the total number of reported originated home purchase loans (action taken type = 1 and loan purpose = 1) is greater than 25, then the number of these reported originated home purchase loans should be less than or equal to 95% of the total number of reported home purchase loans (loan purpose = 1). Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Loan Purpose
Macro,Macro,Q047,"If preapproval = 1, and action taken type = 4, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 10% of the total number of loan applications.","The total number of loans that requested preapprovals but the application was withdrawn by the applicant (preapproval = 1 and action taken type = 4) should be less than or equal to 10% of the total number of reported lars for this reporting period. Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Preapprovals; Type of Action Taken; Total Line Entries
Macro,Macro,Q048,"If preapproval = 1, and action taken type = 5, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 5% of the total number of loan applications.","The total number of loans that requested preapprovals but the file was closed for incompleteness (preapproval = 1 and action taken type = 5) should be less than or equal to 5% of the total number of reported lars for this reporting period. Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Preapprovals; Type of Action Taken; Total Line Entries
Macro,Macro,Q007,"If action taken type = 2, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 15% of the total number of loan applications.","The total number of applications that were approved but not accepted (action taken type = 2) should be less than or equal to 15% of the total number of reported lars for this reporting period. Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Total Line Entries
Macro,Macro,Q008,"If action taken type = 4, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 30% of the total number of loan applications.","The total number of applications that were withdrawn by the applicant (action taken type = 4) should be less than or equal to 30% of the total number of reported lars for this reporting period. Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Total Line Entries
Macro,Macro,Q009,"If action taken type = 5, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 15% of the total number of loan applications.","The total number of files that were closed for incompleteness (action taken type = 5) should be less than or equal to 15% of the total number of reported lars for this reporting period. Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Total Line Entries
Macro,Macro,Q010,The number of loan applications that report action taken type = 1 should be ≥ 20% of the total number of loan applications where action taken type = 1-6.,"The total number of loans that were originated (action taken type = 1) should be greater than or equal to 20% of the total number of reported loans that were not classified as preapproval request denied by financial institution or preapproval request approved but not accepted (action taken type 1-6). Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken
Macro,Macro,Q023,The number of loan applications that report MSA/MD = NA should be ≤ 30% of the total number of loan applications.,"The total number of loans that reported ""NA"" for the MSA/MD where the property is located should be less than or equal to 30% of the total number of reported lars for this reporting period. Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Metropolitan Statistical Area / Metropolitan Division; Total Line Entries
Macro,Macro,Q011,"If current or previous year’s total number of applications is ≥ 500, then the current year should be within (+ or -) 20% of the previous year’s total.","If the total number of reported loans for this reporting period or for last year were greater than or equal to 500 loans respectively, then the total number of reported loans for the current year should be between 80% and 120% of last year's total number of reported loans. Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Total Line Entries; Total Line Entries for the previous year
Macro,Macro,Q016,"The number of loan applications that report income < $10,000 should be ≤ 20% of total loan applications.","The total number of reported loans with income less than $10 thousand should be less than or equal to 20% of the total number of reported lars. Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Applicant Income; Total Line Entries
Macro,Macro,Q053,"If agency = 5, action taken type = 1 and HOEPA status = 1, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 1% of the total number of originated loans.","If your institution is regulated by the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) (agency code = 5), then the total number of loans that were originated (action taken type = 1) and classified as a HOEPA loan (HOEPA status = 1) should be less than or equal to 1% of the total number of reported originated loans (action taken type = 1). Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Agency Code; Type of Action Taken; HOEPA Status
Macro,Macro,Q054,"If agency = 5, action taken type = 6 and HOEPA status = 1, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 1% of the total number of purchased loans.","If your institution is regulated by the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) (agency code = 5), then the total number of loans that were purchased by your institution (action taken type = 6) and classified as a HOEPA loan (HOEPA status = 1) should be less than or equal to 1% of the total number of reported loans that were purchased by your institution (action taken type = 6). Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Agency Code; Type of Action Taken; HOEPA Status
Macro,Macro,Q062,"If action taken type =1, HOEPA status = 1, lien status = 1 and type of purchaser = 1, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 1% of the total number of originated loans.","The total number of reported originated HOEPA loans (action taken type = 1 and HOEPA status = 1) that are secured by a first lien (lien status = 1) and purchased by Fannie Mae (type of purchaser = 1) should be less than or equal to 1% of the total number of reported originated loans (action taken type = 1). Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario. ",Type of Action Taken; HOEPA Status; Lien Status; Type of Purchaser
Macro,Macro,Q063,"If action taken type =1, HOEPA status = 1, lien status = 1 and type of purchaser = 3, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 1% of the total number of originated loans.","The total number of reported originated HOEPA loans (action taken type = 1 and HOEPA status = 1) that are secured by a first lien (lien status = 1) and purchased by Freddie Mac (type of purchaser = 3) should be less than or equal to 1% of the total number of reported originated loans (action taken type = 1). Your file indicates a percentage outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario. ",Type of Action Taken; HOEPA Status; Lien Status; Type of Purchaser
Macro,Macro,Q065,"If HOEPA status = 1, then the total number of HOEPA loans should be < 200.","The total number of reported HOEPA loans (HOEPA status = 1) should be less than 200. Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",HOEPA Status
Macro,Macro,Q055,"If HOEPA status = 1, action taken = 1 and rate spread ≥ 5% and not = NA, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 5% of the total number of originated loans.","The total number of reported originated HOEPA loans (HOEPA status = 1 and action taken = 1) with a rate spread greater than or equal to 5% should be less than or equal to 5% of the total number of reported originated loans (action taken =1). Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",HOEPA Status; Type of Action Taken; Rate Spread
Macro,Macro,Q061,"If property type = 1, lien status = 1, action taken type = 1 and rate spread > 5% and not = NA, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 1% of the total number of originated loans.","The total number of reported originated loans for a one to four-family home (action taken type = 1 and property type = 1) that is secured by a first lien (lien status = 1) and with a rate spread greater than 5% should be less than or equal to 1% of the total number of reported originated loans (action taken =1). Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Property Type; Type of Action Taken; Lien Status; Rate Spread
Macro,Macro,Q056,"If the total number of conventional home purchase loan applications is ≥ 50, then the total number of denied conventional home purchase loans should be ≤ 70%.","If the total number of reported conventional home purchase loans (loan type = 1 and loan purpose = 1) is greater than or equal to 50, then the total number of denied conventional home purchase loans (action taken type = 3, loan type = 1, and loan purpose = 1) should be less than or equal to 70% of the total number of reported conventional home purchase loans (loan type = 1 and loan purpose =1). Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Loan Type; Loan Purpose; Type of Action Taken
Macro,Macro,Q057,"If the total number of loan applications is ≥ 50, then the total number of denied loan applications should be > zero.","If the total number of reported loans for this reported period is greater than or equal to 50, then the total number of denied loans (action taken = 3) should be greater than zero. Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Total Line Entries
Macro,Macro,Q058,"If the total number of loan applications where preapproval = 1 is ≥ 1000, then the total number of preapproval requests denied (action taken = 7) should be > zero.","If the total number of reported loans where a preapproval was requested (preapproval = 1) is greater than or equal to 1000, then the total number of denied preapproval requests (action taken = 7) should be greater than zero.  Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Preapprovals; Type of Action Taken
Macro,Macro,Q070,"If action taken type = 1 or 6, purpose of loan = 1 or 3, property type = 1 or 2, loan type = 1; and if the percentage of these loans that are sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac in the current year is less than the percentage of the same type of loans sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac in the prior year, then the percentage difference between the two years should be less than 10%; or if the number of these loans for the current year is ≥ 10,000, then the percentage of these loans sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac for the current year should be > 20%.","There are two scenarios that trigger this edit for reported loans that are conventional, home purchase or refinancing (loan type = 1 and loan purpose = 1 or 3), were originated or purchased by your institution (action taken type = 1 or 6), for properties classified as one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), and were sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac (purchaser type = 1 or 3):  1) If the percentage of reported loans listed above that were sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac for the current reporting period is less than the percentage of those same type of loans sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the prior year, then the difference between the percentages for the two reporting periods should be less than 10%, or 2) If the total number of reported loans listed above is greater than or equal to 10,000, then the percentage of these loans should be greater than 20% of the total number of reported loans.   Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Loan Type; Loan Purpose; Property Type; Type of Purchaser; Total Line Entries; Type of Action Taken for the previous year; Loan Type for the previous year; Loan Purpose for the previous year; Property Type for the previous year; Type of Purchaser for the previous year
Macro,Macro,Q071,"If action taken type = 1 or 6, purpose of loan = 1 or 3, property type = 1 or 2, loan type = 2; and if the percentage of these loans that are sold to Ginnie Mae in the current year is less than the percentage of the same type of loans sold to Ginnie Mae in the prior year, then the percentage difference between the two years should be less than 10%; or if the number of these loans for the current year is ≥ 2, 500, then the percentage of these loans sold to Ginnie Mae for the current year should be > 30%.","There are two scenarios that trigger this edit for reported loans that are FHA-insured, home purchase or refinancing (loan type = 2 and loan purpose = 1 or 3), were originated or purchased by your institution (action taken type = 1 or 6), properties classified as one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), and were sold to Ginnie Mae (purchaser type = 2):  1) If the percentage of reported loans listed above that were sold to Ginnie Mae for the current reporting period is less than the percentage of those same type of loans sold to Ginnie Mae in the prior year, then the difference between the percentages for the two reporting periods should be less than 10%, or 2) If the total number of reported loans listed above is greater than or equal to 2,500, then the percentage of these loans should be greater than 30% of the total number of reported loans.   Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Loan Type; Loan Purpose; Property Type; Type of Purchaser; Total Line Entries; Type of Action Taken for the previous year; Loan Type for the previous year; Loan Purpose for the previous year; Property Type for the previous year; Type of Purchaser for the previous year
Macro,Macro,Q072,"If action taken type = 1 or 6, purpose of loan = 1 or 3, property type = 1 or 2, loan type = 3; and if the percentage of these loans that are sold to Ginnie Mae in the current year is less than the percentage of the same type of loans sold to Ginnie Mae in the prior year, then the percentage difference between the two years should be less than 10%; or if the number of these loans for the current year is ≥ 2,000, then the percentage of these loans sold to Ginnie Mae for the current year should be > 30%.","There are two scenarios that trigger this edit for reported loans that are VA-guaranteed, home purchase or refinancing (loan type = 3 and loan purpose = 1 or 3), were originated or purchased by your institution (action taken type = 1 or 6), properties classified as one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), and were sold to Ginnie Mae (purchaser type = 2):  1) If the percentage of reported loans listed above that were sold to Ginnie Mae for the current reporting period is less than the percentage of those same type of loans sold to Ginnie Mae in the prior year, then the difference between the percentages for the two reporting periods should be less than 10%, or 2) If the total number of reported loans listed above is greater than or equal to 2,000, then the percentage of these loans should be greater than 30% of the total number of reported loans.   Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Loan Type; Loan Purpose; Property Type; Type of Purchaser; Total Line Entries; Type of Action Taken for the previous year; Loan Type for the previous year; Loan Purpose for the previous year; Property Type for the previous year; Type of Purchaser for the previous year
Macro,Macro,Q073,"If 250 or greater loans are reported with purpose of loan = 1, action taken type = 1 or 6, property type = 1 or 2, and loan type = 2 or 3, then of these loans, the percentage of loans sold should be > 20%.","This applies to originated or purchased loans (action taken type = 1 or 6), that are classified as home purchase (purpose of loan = 1), one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), and are either FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed (loan type = 2 or 3). If 250 or more of this type of loan is reported in your file, then more than 20% of this type of loan should have been sold in the same calendar year. Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Loan Purpose; Property Type; Loan Type; Type of Purchaser
Macro,Macro,Q074,"If 250 or greater loans are reported with purpose of loan = 3, action taken type = 1 or 6, property type = 1 or 2, and loan type = 2 or 3, then of these loans, the percentage of loans sold should be > 20%.","This applies to originated or purchased loans (action taken type = 1 or 6), that are classified as refinance (purpose of loan = 3), one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), and are either FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed (loan type = 2 or 3). If 250 or more of this type of loan is reported in your file, then more than 20% of this type of loan should have been sold in the same calendar year. Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Loan Purpose; Property Type; Loan Type; Type of Purchaser
Macro,Macro,Q075,"If 750 or greater loans are reported with purpose of loan = 1, action taken type = 1 or 6, property type = 1 or 2, then of these loans, the difference between the percentage of loans that are sold in the current year and the percentage of the same type of loans sold in the prior year should be less than (+ or -) 20%.","This applies to originated or purchased loans (action taken type = 1 or 6), that are classified as home purchase (purpose of loan = 1), one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2). If 750 or more of this type of loan is reported in your file, then the difference between the percentage of these loans sold in the current year and in the previous year should be less than an absolute value of 20.  Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Loan Purpose; Property Type; Type of Purchaser; Type of Purchaser for the previous year
Macro,Macro,Q076,"If 750 or greater loans are reported with purpose of loan = 3, action taken type = 1 or 6, property type = 1 or 2, then of these loans, the difference between the percentage of loans that are sold in the current year and the percentage of the same type of loans sold in the prior year should be less than (+ or -) 20%.","This applies to originated or purchased loans (action taken type = 1 or 6), that are classified as refinancing (purpose of loan = 3), one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2). If 750 or more of this type of loan is reported in your file, then the difference between the percentage of these loans sold in the current year and in the previous year should be less than an absolute value of 20.  Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Loan Purpose; Property Type; Type of Purchaser; Type of Purchaser for the previous year
Macro,Macro,Q080,"If action taken = 1, 2 or 3, property type = 1 or 2, and applicant ethnicity = 3 or 4, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 50% of the total number of loans where action taken = 1-5.","This applies to originated loans, applications approved but not accepted, and application denied by your institution (action taken = 1, 2, or 3), for properties classified as one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), and the applicant's ethnicity is reported as information not provided by applicant in mail, Internet, or telephone application, or not applicable (applicant ethnicity = 3 or 4). The total number of loans that are classified as this type of loan should be less than or equal to 50% of the total number of reported loans that were originated, application approved but not accepted, application denied by your institution, application withdrawn by applicant, or file was closed for incompleteness (action taken 1=5). Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Property Type; Applicant Ethnicity
Macro,Macro,Q081,"If action taken = 1, 2 or 3, property type = 1 or 2, and first applicant race field = 6 or 7, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 50% of the total number of loans where action taken = 1-5.","This applies to originated loans, applications approved but not accepted, and application denied by your institution (action taken = 1, 2, or 3), for properties classified as one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), and the first applicant race is reported as information not provided by applicant in mail, Internet, or telephone application, or not applicable (applicant race: 1 = 6 or 7). The total number of loans that are classified as this type of loan should be less than or equal to 50% of the total number of reported loans that were originated, application approved but not accepted, application denied by your institution, application withdrawn by applicant, or file was closed for incompleteness (action taken 1=5). Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Property Type; Applicant Race: 1
Macro,Macro,Q082,"If action taken = 1, 2 or 3, property type = 1 or 2, and applicant sex = 3 or 4, then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 50% of the total number of loans where action taken = 1-5.","This applies to originated loans, applications approved but not accepted, and application denied by your institution (action taken = 1, 2, or 3), for properties classified as one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), and the applicant sex is reported as information not provided by applicant in mail, Internet, or telephone application, or not applicable (applicant sex = 3 or 4). The total number of loans that are classified as this type of loan should be less than or equal to 50% of the total number of loans that were originated, application approved but not accepted, application denied by your institution, application withdrawn by applicant, or file was closed for incompleteness (action taken 1=5). Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Property Type; Applicant Sex
Macro,Macro,Q083,"If action taken = 1, 2 or 3, property type = 1 or 2, and (applicant ethnicity = 3 or 4) and (first applicant race field = 6 or 7) and (applicant sex = 3 or 4), then the total number of these loans should be ≤ 20% of the total number of loans where action taken = 1-5.","This applies to originated loans, applications approved but not accepted, and application denied by your institution (action taken = 1, 2, or 3), for properties classified as one to four-family or manufactured housing (property type = 1 or 2), and the applicant ethnicity, first race, and sex are respectively reported as information not provided by applicant in mail, Internet, or telephone application, or not applicable (applicant ethnicity = 3 or 4, applicant race: 1 = 6 or 7, and applicant sex = 3 or 4). The total number of loans that are classified as this type of loan should be less than or equal to 20% of the total number of loans that were originated, application approved but not accepted, application denied by your institution, application withdrawn by applicant, or file was closed for incompleteness (action taken 1=5). Your file indicates a number outside of this range. Please verify and update your file if needed. If this information is correct, please provide an explanation for this scenario.",Type of Action Taken; Property Type; Applicant Ethnicity; Applicant Race: 1; Applicant Sex; 
